Skull fracture: Lie casaulty in a comfortable position, place pad on foreign object if any, control any bleeding, cover wound then transport casualty to hospital.
Ribs fracture: Lie casualty in a comfortable position, cover any wound, suspend limb of affected part, take casualty to hospital.
Arm: Place casualty in a comfortable position with injured arm placed across chest, use bandange to secure the arm in position, take casualty to hospital
Leg: Place casualty in comfortable position, clean wound if any, tie injured leg to healthy one avoid site of injury, take casualty to hospital.
Sprain and Strain: Rest casualty in a comfortable position, apply ice to reduce pain and swelling, compress injured part with soft padding, hold with bandage, raise affected part to reduce blood flow to the part. Take to hospital
Minor Wound: Clean hand before treating, clean wound unde running water or use antiseptic, dry wound and surroundings. Cover with clean dress, avoid coughing, sneezing, talking over wound or the dressing.
Major Wound:  Control bleeding, direct pressure could be applied or raise part if it affects a limb. Cover wound with clean dressing and hold with bandage. Take casualty to hospital.
Eye wound: Lay in comfortable position, make casualty keep still and hold eye pad or sterile dressing over the injured eye. Send casualty to hospital.
Ear bleed: Place casualty in a comfortable position, apply dressing or pad on the ear, take the casualty hospital.
Nose bleed: Place casualty in a comfortable position, pinch nose just below the bridge and breath through the mouth, dont cough or speak, release after 10mins, clan once bleed is under control.
Throat Cut: place in comfortable position, hold edges of wound together, get wound cleaned, apply sterile dressing and hold in place with bandage. Take to hospital.
External bleeding: Keep casualty in a comfortable position and injured part still, raise and support the injured part if it involve the limb, apply sterile dressing or clean material and bandage. take to hospital.
Blood Vomiting: Place casualty in a comfortable position, loose tight clothing, keep casualty calm, take 
vomit specimen for medical examination and seek medical assistance.
Fainting: Lay casualty down on his back, raise and support legs, make sure casualty is not crowded, loose tight clothing as casualty recovers, treat any injury. If not, check breathe and send to hospital.
Electric Shock: Put off source of current if known, wear insulator such as rubber if available, push casualty away with dry long stick and pull out with insulated material. Get medical assistance.
Dog bite: Lay casualty in a comfortable position, arrest bleeding if any with pressure on the point, treat as infected wound by cleaning with disinfectant before applying dressing. Seek medical assistance.
Drowning: Get casualty out of water, lay casualty down, clear visible obstruction form airway, do chest compression and artificial ventilation. Seek medical asistance.
Hanging, Strangulation or Throttling: Remove constriction, support body if still hanging. Lay casualty down and check breathing pulse. Perform artificial ventilation if breathing stopped. Seek medical assistance.
Child Convulsion: Remove clothe, place soft padding around child, cool child by sponging with water, keep airway open, reassure child, seek medical assistance.


